well we can talk now to basam Naim who
is a member of hamas's political Bureau
sir I I want to start by asking you
about the six Israeli captives whose
bodies were found in a tunnel in
southern Gaza the Israeli authorities
and Hamas are blaming each other for
killing them how did they
die thank you very much uh we also in
the leadership of Hamas here outside of
the country we are waiting for the final
uh story or narrative from the
resistance on the ground because we have
it is very complicated their underground
we can remember recently when the
Israelis have tried to rescue some of
their captured Israelis inat two months
ago they have rescued three uh uh living
captured Israelis but they have at the
same time killed three others and killed
uh at the same time two 50 Palestinians
and wed hundreds in each time in another
case in Shia the Israelis have killed
also by I'm I'm talking killed not only
by this by missiles attacks where they
have killed at least 70 to 80 of their
on uh people but I'm talking about cases
where they have killed by snipers or by
direct shooting therefore uh no until
now we cannot confirm any of these uh
allegations of the
side they haven't specifically if if I
can jump in specifically Israel says
that the autopsy shows that the bodies
carry signs of bullet wounds and the
autopsy suggests that they were shot at
close range a short while before the
Israeli troops got there are those
things that first of all first of all we
have he a lot of Israeli stories like
beheading of baby of mass ring or gang
gings and a lot of other lies which has
unfortunately adopted by the Western
media in particular in the United States
uh which has been shown later to or have
been proven later to be uh fabricated
stories second uh they might be uh
killed by uh cross shooting or
cross-firing between the fighters and
the Israeli soldiers but we are not sure
how they have been killed they have the
Israelis themselves they haven't shown
any evidence we are
we are ready to send and Hamas says that
they were killed by bombing and equally
Hamas is not shown evidence of that
sorry we we are okay if they can allow
us to send a neutral investigation
committee with forensic medicine to
proof their allegations but uh they they
say this in the media without any
serious uh scientific evidence of what
they have said okay the the head of the
I would point out that the head of the
um UN Human rights office vulka Turk has
called for such an independent
investigation so the spokesman of
hamas's armed Wing says that the guards
who are holding the Israeli captives in
Gaza have been under new instructions
since June instructions on what to do if
Israeli troops approach what are those
instructions again unfortunately I
cannot satisfy you by very detailed
answer but again based on because I
haven't the information the detailed
information but what I this is a
statement by abua the spokesperson of
the kassan Brigade continue because you
know that three weeks or four weeks ago
there was an incident that one of the
guards of those captured Israelis for
for uh unknown reason he shot uh one of
the captured Israelis and wounded other
TOs and there was an investigation
committee and uh I haven't the I I don't
have the details but after these
incidences there was new instructions uh
more details I cannot now talk about it
I haven't in confirmed but what I am
sure of that any Israeli attempt to
rescue their own captured Israelis by
force by uh missiles attacks by direct
shootings it will endanger uh the pal
senior citizen the uh the people who are
guarding them those captured Israelis
and the Israelis themselves and we
haven't seen we have seen it in in many
cases along the last 10
months yeah the the same statement by
Abu aedas yesterday uh says something a
little similar to what you're saying now
uh that Mr netanyahu's insistence on
freeing the captives through military
pressure instead of reaching a deal
means the captives will go back to their
families and coffins do you understand
that that could be read that can be
construed as meaning that Hamas is
willing to kill the captives if Israeli
troops get close to them that's the
whole point that I'm trying to put to
you are you today tell are you saying I
cannot understand are you saying that
Hamas categorically would not do
that I cannot say I cannot understand in
this way but what I can understand based
on the experience of the last 10 months
that instead of having these people uh
uh fre um enjoying their presence
between their in their families through
a negotiated deal for months ago in
Netanyahu insisting in continuing this
aggression against our people continuing
on retrieving the solders by force and
the result in a lot of cases that uh
these captured Series has been killed
directly by the Israeli soldiers or by
missile strikes or maybe by cross-firing
between the fighters and the Israeli
soldiers and therefore in most of the
cases they have tried to retrieve the
soldiers they have failed again they
have they have succeeded only in one
case but in this case in no they have
retrieved four living captured Israelis
killed another three and killed 250
other Palestinian citizen innocent
citizen this is what I can understand
from his uh tweet yesterday that the
attempt to retrieve them forcefully it
means most probably they will they will
be killed let me ask you this then is
Hamas currently able to keep the
captives in Gaza safe as the war
continues No One Is Safe in Gaza neither
the captives nor our own people or our
Fighters 50 40 more than 40,000
Palestinians most of them children and
women killed in Gaza
in most of them in safe zone or safe
areas announced by the Israelis No One
Is Safe in
Gaza where are we on uh ceasefire
negotiations right now has any progress
been made over the last 3
weeks unfortunately uh the uh deal which
has been uh
brokered uh on at the beginning of July
by the mediators has been been
undermined and sabotaged by Netanyahu
face of all by committing two big
massacres in Gaza Strip one in in in in
in Gaza City and the other one in kanun
and and finally assassinating the head
of the movement second by adding uh a
new conditions which was uh uh not
negotiated before even in the Israeli
paper which is considering the core of
the negotiated deal it was not part of
this negotiated deal the new Israeli
condition B by Netanyahu for example the
the physical presence of the Israeli
Army in Philadelphia Corridor the
physical the presence of the Army in the
ra Crossing inat or in Nim Corridor the
investigation and searching of the
people while they are returning back
home and they have changed even the
terms or the terminology of the ex of
the uh prisoner uh deal uh we have said
it clearly we are committed we are still
committed to go immediately for
implementation of what we have agreed
upon by the mediators including the
America The Americans on July second but
we are not ready to go for New
negotiations because each time in
different in in in a lot of stations we
have we were near to reach an deal he
committed either new crimes or he
sabotaged the uh deal by adding new
conditions even which which was not part
of his own proposal uh Mr Naim I want to
put something to you which you may or
may not be aware of because we ourselves
just got the information uh the US
justice department has just announced
that it is charging Hamas leader Yahya
senoir as well as other uh top Hamas uh
commanders for crimes committed during
the October 7th attack your reaction
your comments on that first of all um it
was not it is not surprising for me to
hear such uh
news uh but I think the one who H who
has to be tried and uh accused for war
crimes is Mr Joe Biden himself and his
administration who is directly
participating for the last 11 months in
killing of our people and destroying of
our uh country the United States has
sent along the last 11 months more than
500,000 tons of explosive materials and
weapons to Israel they have supported
and backed them up for politically in
the by blocking the international will
in the UN General Assembly and un
Security Council by using the veto they
have supported them in the media by
adopting all their lies and fabricated
stories therefore the one who is
committing the genocide is not only
Netanyahu but also Mr Joe Biden and his
administration they have to be uh tried
in front of international uh courts as
genocidal uh leaders well as a reminder
to our viewers uh the chief prosecutor
of the IC the international criminal
court has sought arrest warrants against
Yahya senoir and against the Israeli
Prime Minister and his defense minister
those arrest warrants have not uh yet
been uh granted they haven't been issued
but he has asked for them b m yeah sorry
go ahead at the end of for us
Palestinians and all people here in the
region we believe that we are Freedom
Fighters and mrir is leading a national
Palestinian National Liberation
movement understood basm Naim member of
hamas's political Bureau thank you very
much please
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from aler